Titan,

I have re-read all the comments and tried to write down my thoughts for 
the most relevant ones.
As a summary, here you have what I think we should address in order to have
a successful submission:

- The introduction could include some mention to the pattern discovery task.
- The description of the metric needs to be rewritten: more context, more examples.
- The examples are not clear: we should be concise regarding frames and seconds.
- Add a real word example by running an algortihm over the SALAMI dataset:
    -- A good thing to do might be: 
        --- run "flat" algorithm and compare it with 2-layer SALAMI.
        --- run "hierarchical" algorithm and compare it with 2-layer SALAMI.
- We need a better name for our metric (SHAG means "sex" in London apparently).

If you want to go over all the comments, see below.

Finally, could you meet on Thursday around 4pm to discuss the next steps of this?

Thanks,
uri

Title: HIERARCHICAL EVALUATION OF MUSIC SEGMENT BOUNDARY DETECTION

Authors: Brian McFee and Oriol Nieto

============================================================================
                            REVIEWER #1
============================================================================


---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Reviewer's Scores
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

            Scholarly/scientific quality: medium low
                                 Novelty: medium low
                      Relevance of topic: medium high
                              Importance: low
      Readability and paper organisation: medium high
                      Title and abstract: yes
                            Bibliography: yes


---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Comments
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The authors propose a new evaluation measure for music structure analysis. The
novelty lies mainly in the fact that the mesure considers also the possible
hierarchical information in the annotations and/or result. The paper makes a
point, but it is relatively difficult to read, as the used syntax is not
properly explained. Furthermore, there is no clear indication that the proposed
measure would be the "new king" among the structure analysis evaluation
measures, so the rather large set is augmented with the proposed one (including
the variants with the window size).

In the second paragraph of 3.1, the description of the notation needs to be
clarified. Which way does the containment symbol work wrt the layman's "is a
part of"? Maybe relate this to Fig. 1.

>>> Maybe add some visual examples on this.

In equation (2), what do the various brace-like things mean? Presumably
something similar to the cardinality of a set, but why are there then two
different notations? 

>>> We need to state that the double braces represent the INDICATOR function,
and the single bar (|) represents the cardinality.

Plus, it looks like it should be possible to move the
denominator outside of the division. 

>>> Yes, but it looks uglier. However, it might be good in equation (4).

Is this measure approximately the same as
the F-measure from [4] would be, if one considers each segment separately,
i.e., ignoring the repetitions?

>>> This measure is similar to [4] (Pariwise frame clustering) in the sense that
it also uses frames (like the entropy scores too).

Because I didn't fully understand the notation, I can't really comment on the
further equations.

The examples in 4.1. "(q,i,j) = (5,25,25)". i and j are both 25, so why is i
relevant for q and j is not? Confusing.

>>> I think we should redo the plots of the examples with time in frames instead
of seconds, otherwise I agree that it is confusing (if the top plot in Figure 2
would be in frames, then the example should be (q,i,j) = (5,15,15).

Even though the paper raises in a way valid points, I fail to see a real need
for this, especially when the output consists of two numbers and depends from a
window-length parameter. If one could extend this into evaluating the music
structure analysis results including the labeling or grouping of the segments,
the work would have much more value in my eyes.

>>> We might need to evaluate a couple of algorithms on a standard dataset like
SALAMI in order to better illustrate the behavior of this metric.

============================================================================
                            REVIEWER #2
============================================================================


---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Reviewer's Scores
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

            Scholarly/scientific quality: medium low
                                 Novelty: medium high
                      Relevance of topic: medium high
                              Importance: medium low
      Readability and paper organisation: high
                      Title and abstract: yes
                            Bibliography: yes


---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Comments
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

A pair of evaluation metrics called under-segmentation metric H_u and
over-segmentation metric H_o are defined and exemplified for toy segmentations
of an audio track, and towards the close for some real-world data. The metrics
rely on a window parameter w, and are intended to address a shortcoming of flat
segmentation annotations, namely that music more often than not is hierarchical
in structure. The acknowledgment and nuancing of a previously oversimple MIR
task is a clear development. The extent to which the solution proposed here
will work is less clear.

1. This paper needs to provide more context for structural segmentation in MIR
and musicology, and temper some of its claims as a result. Specifically, the
task of discovering motives, themes, and repeated sections has been introduced
to the MIR world in the last eighteen months (
http://www.music-ir.org/mirex/wiki/2013:Discovery_of_Repeated_Themes_%26_Sectio
ns ), including a ground truth in which patterns (the umbrella term for
motives, themes, sections) are defined in terms of actual note collections.
Furthermore these note collections may overlap with one another or nest (e.g.,
a motive appears several times within a theme occurrence) and still be part of
the ground truth. The corresponding evaluation metrics take this
overlapping/nesting into account, so it is over-claiming for the authors to say
"Recently, collections of hierarchical structure annotations have been
published, but at present, no evaluation techniques exist to evaluate against
these rich structural annotations". The current paper ought to recognise the
existence of the pattern discovery task, in order to make its own contribution
more clear.

If you would like a paper reference rather than the above-mentioned MIREX URL,
then please use:

Collins, T., S. BÃ¶ck, F. Krebs, and G. Widmer. Bridging the audio-symbolic
gap: the discovery of repeated note content directly from polyphonic music
audio. In Proceedings of the Audio Engineering Society's 53rd Conference on
Semantic Audio (London, 2014). URL:
http://tomcollinsresearch.net/pdf/collinsEtAlAES2014.pdf

>>> We might need to clearly distinguish between pattern discovery and music 
segmentation. Acknowledging the pattern discovery task (and maybe enumerating
its metrics) would be a good thing, as long as it is clear to the reader that
we want to evaluate the SALAMI dataset (i.e. large and small scale levels of
structure) than to identify non-consecutive overlapping motives.

2. The choice of time window and its effect on the metrics is a major weakness
of this work. The authors acknowledge the weakness in section 3.5. According to
parameter w's value, there is for instance a range of 27.72-92.73 for H_u and
41.99-71.80 for H_o in Figure 7. The paper contains four toy segmentations
(Figs. 2-5), but only one example of algorithm output on real-world data (Fig.
7). Real-world data is where the validity of the metrics really matters, and we
should (but do not) get a sense from this paper of whether they will work. I do
not think it is possible to choose w to be "long enough to capture boundaries
of segments at multiple resolutions, but not so large as to become dominated by
trivial comparisons" (p. 3).

>>> Again, we should run various algorithms on a dataset like the SALAMI.

3. Section 2 pgh. 1. The authors point out that segmentation algorithms are
evaluated on both boundary detection and labeling, then say that the current
paper will address the evaluation of boundary detection only. A short
justification for why it was not possible to also address the evaluation of
labeled hierarchical segmentations should be provided.

>>> Maybe we should explicitly state that metrics in music segmentation evaluate
boundaries and labels SEPARATELY.

4. Section 3.1. A reader with my background should not have been lost so
quickly in the mathematical preliminaries. I understand that H(i) is the
segment at the deepest layer of the hierarchy that contains sample i. The
sentence "H(i, j) will denote the least common ancestor of H(i) and H(j)" makes
no sense to me, however. It and subsequent definitions really need relating
back to the example in Fig. 1. If we let i be such that b = H(i) and j be such
that c = H(j), then what is H(i, j) in Fig. 1? I guess maybe it is B = H(i, j),
because b \prec B and c \prec B, but then the name "least common ancestor" does
not seem appropriate. It is disappointing to be lost so early on, and makes it
difficult for me to assess the remainder of the paper because, as you say,
these early concepts are key to the evaluation.

>>> Similar to reviewer 1. We might need some visual examples, and maybe more
context.

5. The conclusion section is too short. As in my point 1, It would be
appropriate to step back and say how what you have done relates to MIR and
musicology in general. Here are some other questions that could be discussed:
what do you see as the advantages/disadvantages of segmentation compared with
pattern discovery? For instance, segmentation has an appealing simplicity, but
in specifying actual note content, the annotations used in pattern discovery
are more detailed. Is incorporating hierarchical evaluation into segmentation a
step towards uniting the two tasks of segmentation and pattern discovery? That
could be exciting for future work.


>>> Yes, it would be exciting for future work, but I don't think that's the point.
I don't think it is necessary to mention it in this work.

6. p. 3 col. 1 pgh. 6, beginning "Equation (4) can be alternately be viewed
asâ¦". There are several problems with this sentence: first the grammar "be
alternately be"; 

>>> YES. We should change that.

second I am not sure it deserves a paragraph in itself;
thirdly it is a very dense reference to AUC, a concept that, up to this point,
is external to the paper. You ought instead to continue relating eqs. 2-4 to a
worked example. Some of the mathematics and surrounding explanations seem
wilfully opaque, whereas they should be helping the reader to gain an
understanding.

>>> Maybe adding more AUC context would help.

7. p. 3 col. 1 last pgh. The long/short track bias of H_u and H_o and the
proposed solution in subsequent paragraphs may also benefit from an example,
rather than simply stating that windowing addresses the bias.

>>> Maybe.

8. The term "dynamic range" appears twice (p. 3 col. 2 pgh. 2 and p. 4 col. 1
pgh. 1) and is confusing on both occasions. What does it mean to
normalize/increase this metric's dynamic range?

>>> Again, maybe add examples.

9. The restriction of the metric to direct precedence relations only (section
3.6) seems to contradict the authors' claim that this metric assesses entire
hierarchies. That is, if the reference annotation contains a precedence
sequence a \prec b \prec c and the estimated annotation contains a precedence
sequence a' \prec b' \prec x \prec c', where a and a' are very similar
segments, as are b and b', and c and c', and x is an erroneously estimated
segment, how does the metric respond, pre- and post-introduction of the
restriction to direct precedence relations only? Clarification on this point
may be beneficial.

>>> This should be solved by adding examples in the preliminaries I think.

10. While sections 4.1-4.3 are a little longwinded, they are interpretable.
This material does not obviate the need for references to examples mentioned in
my points 4, 6, 7, because those early concepts can still be better explained.
But here in 4.1-4.3 things are improving. Although in point 2 I mention there
may be too many toy segmentations, Figs. 2-5 are set out clearly.

>>> Same issue of missing some context / examples in the metric definition.

11. p. 4 col. 2 pgh. 2. First mention of SALAMI requires a reference (to [9]?)
and maybe unpacking the acronym. The first mention of [9] on p. 1 col. 2 line 1
is a bit shoehorned. I think after "manner [8]" on p. 1 col. 1 last line you
should just start a new sentence stating that "A large dataset ofâ¦". First
use of "SALAMI" could be moved back to here.

>>> Yes, we should do that.

>>> The following is a list of "syntax errors" that I do not feel I'm able to
properly comment due to my English limitations.

12. The analysis of the structure in music has been one of the main areas of
interest by musicologists for many years

-> The analysis of structure in music has been a central area of interest for
musicology over many years.

Or something more elegant along these lines.

13. p. 1 col. 2 pgh. 4. evaluated for two distinct goals -> evaluated according
to two distinct goals.

14. p. 1 col. 2 pgh. 4. accuracy at detection transition -> accuracy at
detecting transition.

15. p. 2. Use a lower-case h in and around eq. 1 to avoid confusion with H in
subsequent sections.

16. p. 2 col. 1. These are apt, well presented criticisms of flat
segmentations.

17. p. 2 col. 1 last pgh. by evaluating layer independently -> by evaluating
layers independently

18. p. 2 col. 2 pgh. 7. formally describe a sample recall metric -> formally
define a sample recall metric

19. p. 3 col. 1 pgh. 2. yields an mean sample -> yields a mean sample

20. p. 3 col. 1 last pgh. but it does -> but they do

Refers to metrics plural, so "they".

21. p. 3 col. 1 last pgh. eq. (4) may be dominated by pairs trivially
irrelevant comparison points -> eq. (4) may be dominated by pairs of trivially
irrelevant comparison points.

22. p. 3 col. 2 pgh. 2. we propose to use -> we propose using.

23. p. 3 col. 2 pgh. 3. start and ending -> start and end.

24. p. 3 col. 2 pgh. 5. and thus suffices -> and thus suffice

"Suffice" refers to "they", which refers to "high-level segment annotations",
so it should be "suffice" and not "suffices".

25. Throughout, I would change "on the top/bottom of Figures" to "at the
top/bottom of Figures".

26. Section 4.1 first pgh. an algorithm only estimates â without any time
deviations â a subset of all the reference boundaries

-> an algorithm only estimates a subset of all the reference boundaries,
without any time deviations.

27. p. 4 col. 1 pgh. 5. quite structurally different -> quite different
structurally.

28. p. 4 col. 1 pgh. 6. First, let (q, i, j) = (5, 25, 25) -> First, let (q, i,
j) = (25, 5, 25).

29. p. 4 col. 2 pgh. 2. We no longer can -> We can no longer.

30. p. 5 col. 2. The two paragraphs here both start with "finally", which
probably ought to be altered.

31. p. 6 col. 2 ref. 10. Please fill in a bit more information to make the
reference consistent with [5], [7], [9]. I think ISMIR 2007 was in Vienna.

32. I expect the authors are aware that SHAG is British slang for sex. I felt
obliged to point this out in case they were not aware, so that they can modify
the acronym if they wish!

>>> !!! Ok, we should change that. Or maybe I like it even more now.

============================================================================
                            REVIEWER #3
============================================================================


---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Reviewer's Scores
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

            Scholarly/scientific quality: medium low
                                 Novelty: high
                      Relevance of topic: high
                              Importance: medium low
      Readability and paper organisation: medium high
                      Title and abstract: yes
                            Bibliography: yes


---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Comments
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The work is impressive, but it is not clear how useful is the proposed method.

About the reduction of segmentation evaluation to ranking evaluation (Â§3.2):
it should be proved whether or not equation (2) used for flat segmentation is
equivalent to precision-recall paradigm, so that it could be considered as a
generalization to hierarchical segmentation. If not, it should be explained how
the different paradigm is interesting.

>>> More examples basically, in order to give more context.

We might wonder also why the model needs to be that complex, using three moving
variables q, i and j?

>>> I don't think he got the point. Even though I agree that having the additional
window parameter makes our metric a bit more confusing.

The SHAG measures are very difficult to interpret without taking much time
understanding what the model is about. The measures do not directly describe
the structural similarities but describes the particularities of the chosen
evaluation model.

The three main limitations of the method as indicated in 3.4 and 3.6 (dependent
on length, problem of scaling, not working with multiple levels) indicate the
limited use of the method. The solution based on windowing reintroduced the
focus on particular hierarchical level, which was supposed to be overcome in
the paper. In fact, âthe window size must depend on the duration and scale of
structure that the practitioner wishes to capture.â

The example 4.1 for flat hierarchy comparison is not convincing as a
generalized method for comparison. It gets very complicated to interpret,
compared to a classical measure. For which advantage?

>>> Maybe because I think we had a problem by mixing "seconds" and "frames".

1-Hu would rather be the under segmentation metrics, no? Same for 1-Ho.

âTraditional analyses usually provide multiple levels of annotationâ: maybe
âusuallyâ is a little exaggerated?

>>> Not agree.

âdeviation sensitive to number of estimated boundariesâ: reference needed.

>>> We could reference Doug's paper (where he introduces these metrics).

problem of formalization of samples and hierarchy. What is X? Why is S a
partition? not hierarchical?  What are these hierarchy nodes? f_r is not
defined.

In 3.1, it is not made clear that the precedence relation is considered as
strict.

It should be explained why (4) is a generalization of AUC. (And AUC should be
explained too, and how it is used here.)

âdynamic rangeâ is unclear.

>>> Second reviewer who complains about this. We need to clarify this.

In (6), is there a sum over m?

>>> No, why? Don't understand.

A figure showing example of containment of segments with q, i, j (and why not
k) would clarify the explanation.

Paragraph 3.6 is not clear.

>>> More context

There should be an error in â(q, i, j) = (5, 25, 25)â, i and j should be
different, right?

>>> No, they should be the same, but it is not clear in the plot. 
If we were to use seconds, and by looking at the plot, we should have
(5, 15, 15).

A few grammatical and lexical errors.

============================================================================
                            REVIEWER #4
============================================================================


---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Reviewer's Scores
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

            Scholarly/scientific quality: medium low
                                 Novelty: medium low
                      Relevance of topic: medium high
                              Importance: medium low
      Readability and paper organisation: medium high
                      Title and abstract: yes
                            Bibliography: yes


---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Comments
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

=====================================
This is a meta-review
=====================================

The reviewers agree that this paper addresses an important problem that has not
yet received suffient attention in our MIR community. The problem is nicely
motivated and illustrated. However, the reviewers also agree that this paper
has several weaknesses:

* First, the technical details do not always become clear.

>>> Agreed, let's add more context / examples.

* Second, the dependency on a time window and its effect on the metrics has
been considered a major weakness. It seems that the solution based on windowing
reintroduces the original problem that is to be solved.

>>> I think this is because readers did not understand our paper (likely because
we were not clear enough).

* Third, the usefulness of the introduced metrics has been questioned.

>>> Add examples of algorithms running on an existing dataset (SALAMI would be
great because it already has 2 layers of annotations).

I feel that the paper would largely benefit from a detailed re-evaluation of
exsiting structure analysis approaches using the proposed metrics. Only by
means of large-scale experiments, one may be able to see if the proposed
metrics really allow for better understanding the shortcomings of existing
methods.


>>> Agreed.
